docs/src/en/dev/compile_run.md, before:

为了编译 CeresDB, 首先需要安装相关的依赖（包括 `Rust` 的工具链) .

# 依赖(Ubuntu20.04)

假设我们的开发环境是 Ubuntu20.04, 可以执行如下命令来安装所需的依赖。

```shell
apt install git curl gcc g++ libssl-dev pkg-config cmake
```

需要注意的是，项目的编译对 cmake、gcc、g++等依赖项有版本要求。

如果你的开发环境是旧的 Linux 发行版，有必要手动安装这些依赖项的高版本。

# 依赖(MacOS)

如果你的开发环境是 `MacOS` ，可以使用如下命令手动安装这些依赖项的高版本。

1. 安装命令行工具：

```shell
xcode-select --install
```

2. 安装 cmake:

```shell
brew install cmake
```

3. 安装 protobuf:

```shell
brew install protobuf
```

# Rust

`Rust` 可以使用 [rustup](https://rustup.rs/)来安装。
安装 `Rust` 后，进入 CeresDB 工程目录，根据工具链文件指定的 `Rust` 版本会被自动下载。

执行后，你需要添加环境变量来使用`Rust`工具链。只要把下面的命令放到你的`~/.bashrc`或`~/.bash_profile`中即可。

```shell
source $HOME/.cargo/env
```

# 编译运行

编译 CeresDB 命令如下:

```
cargo build --release
```

然后可以使用特定的配置文件运行 CeresDB。

```bash
./target/release/ceresdb-server --config ./docs/minimal.toml
```

Commit message:

docs: add engine_option(cn) (#36)
* optimize

* format

* format

* fix some problem

* fix

* cluster operation

* Update docs/src/cn/about.md

Co-authored-by: WEI Xikai <ShiKaiWi@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Jiacai Liu <dev@liujiacai.net>
Co-authored-by: WEI Xikai <ShiKaiWi@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/src/en/dev/compile_run.md, after:

In order to compile CeresDB, some relevant dependencies(including the `Rust` toolchain) should be installed.

# Dependencies(Ubuntu20.04)

Assuming the development environment is Ubuntu20.04, execute the following command to install the required dependencies:

```shell
apt install git curl gcc g++ libssl-dev pkg-config cmake
```

It should be noted that the compilation of the project has version requirements for dependencies such as cmake, gcc, g++, etc. If your development environment is an old Linux distribution, it is necessary to manually install these dependencies of a higher version.

# Dependencies(MacOS)

If the development environment is MacOS, execute the following command to install the required dependencies.

1. Install command line tools:

```shell
xcode-select --install
```

2. Install cmake:

```shell
brew install cmake
```

3. Install protobuf:

```shell
brew install protobuf
```

# Rust

`Rust` can be installed by [rustup](https://rustup.rs/). After installing rustup, when entering the CeresDB project, the specified `Rust` version will be automatically downloaded according to the rust-toolchain file.

After execution, you need to add environment variables to use the `Rust` toolchain. Basically, just put the following commands into your `~/.bashrc` or `~/.bash_profile`:

```shell
source $HOME/.cargo/env
```

# Compile and Run

Compile CeresDB by the following command:

```
cargo build --release
```

Then you can run CeresDB using the default configuration file provided in the codebase.

```bash
./target/release/ceresdb-server --config ./docs/minimal.toml
```
