docs/src/en/cluster_deployment/with_meta.md, before:

# WithMeta

This guide shows how to deploy a CeresDB cluster with CeresMeta. And with the CeresMeta, the whole CeresDB cluster will feature: high availability, load balancing and horizontal scalability if the underlying storage used by CeresDB is separated service.

## Deploy CeresMeta

### Introduce

CeresMeta is one of the core services of CeresDB distributed mode, it is used to manage and schedule the CeresDB
cluster.By the way, the high availability of CeresMeta is ensured by embedding [ETCD](https://github.com/etcd-io/etcd).

### Build

- Golang version >= 1.19.
- run `make build` in root path of [CeresMeta](https://github.com/CeresDB/ceresmeta).

### Deploy

#### Config

At present, CeresMeta supports specifying service startup configuration in two ways: configuration file and environment
variable. We provide an example of configuration file startup. For details, please refer
to [config](https://github.com/CeresDB/ceresmeta/tree/main/config).
The configuration priority of environment variables is higher than that of configuration files. When they exist at the
same time, the environment variables shall prevail.

#### Start CeresMeta Instances

CeresMeta is based on etcd to achieve high availability. In product environment, we usually deploy multiple nodes, but in local environment and testing, we can directly deploy a single node to simplify the entire deployment process.

- Standalone

```bash
docker run -d --name ceresmeta-server \
  ceresdb/ceresmeta-server:latest
```

- Cluster

```bash
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/CeresDB/docs/main/docs/src/resources/config-ceresmeta-cluster0.toml

docker run -d --name ceresmeta-server
  -v $(pwd)/config-ceresmeta-cluster0.toml:/etc/ceresmeta/ceresmeta.toml \
  ceresdb/ceresmeta-server:latest

wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/CeresDB/docs/main/docs/src/resources/config-ceresmeta-cluster1.toml

docker run -d --name ceresmeta-server
  -v $(pwd)/config-ceresmeta-cluster1.toml:/etc/ceresmeta/ceresmeta.toml \
  ceresdb/ceresmeta-server:latest

wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/CeresDB/docs/main/docs/src/resources/config-ceresmeta-cluster2.toml

docker run -d --name ceresmeta-server
  -v $(pwd)/config-ceresmeta-cluster2.toml:/etc/ceresmeta/ceresmeta.toml \
  ceresdb/ceresmeta-server:latest
```

## Deploy CeresDB

In the `NoMeta` mode, CeresDB only requires the local disk as the underlying storage because the topology of the CeresDB cluster is static. However, with CeresMeta, the cluster topology can be dynamic, that is to say, CeresDB can be configured to use a non-local storage service for the features of a distributed system: HA, load balancing, scalability and so on. And CeresDB can be still configured to use a local storage with CeresMeta, which certainly leads to a static cluster topology.

The relevant storage configurations include two parts:

- Object Storage
- WAL Storage

### Object Storage

#### Local Storage

Similarly, we can configure CeresDB to use a local disk as the underlying storage:

```toml
[analytic.storage.object_store]
type = "Local"
data_dir = "/home/admin/data/ceresdb"
```

#### OSS

Aliyun OSS can be also used as the underlying storage for CeresDB, with which the data is replicated for disaster recovery. Here is a example config, and you have to replace the templates with the real OSS parameters:

```toml
[analytic.storage.object_store]
type = "Aliyun"
key_id = "{key_id}"
key_secret = "{key_secret}"
endpoint = "{endpoint}"
bucket = "{bucket}"
prefix = "{data_dir}"
```

### WAL Storage

#### RocksDB

The WAL based on RocksDB is also a kind of local storage for CeresDB, which is easy for a quick start:

```toml
[analytic.wal]
type = "RocksDB"
data_dir = "/home/admin/data/ceresdb"
```

#### OceanBase

If you have deployed a OceanBase cluster, CeresDB can use it as the WAL storage for data disaster recovery. Here is a example config for such WAL, and you have to replace the templates with real OceanBase parameters:

```toml
[analytic.wal]
type = "Obkv"

[analytic.wal.data_namespace]
ttl = "365d"

[analytic.wal.obkv]
full_user_name = "{full_user_name}"
param_url = "{param_url}"
password = "{password}"

[analytic.wal.obkv.client]
sys_user_name = "{sys_user_name}"
sys_password = "{sys_password}"
```

#### Kafka

If you have deployed a Kafka cluster, CeresDB can also use it as the WAL storage. Here is example config for it, and you have to replace the templates with real parameters of the Kafka cluster:

```toml
[analytic.wal]
type = "Kafka"

[analytic.wal.kafka.client]
boost_broker = "{boost_broker}"
```

### Meta Client Config

Besides the storage configurations, CeresDB must be configured to start in `WithMeta` mode and connect to the deployed CeresMeta:

```toml
[cluster_deployment]
mode = "WithMeta"

[cluster_deployment.meta_client]
cluster_name = 'defaultCluster'
meta_addr = 'http://{CeresMetaAddr}:2379'
lease = "10s"
timeout = "5s"
```

### Complete Config of CeresDB

With all the parts of the configurations mentioned above, a runnable complete config for CeresDB can be made. In order to make the CeresDB cluster runnable, we can decide to adopt RocksDB-based WAL and local-disk-based Object Storage:

```toml
[server]
bind_addr = "0.0.0.0"
http_port = 5440
grpc_port = 8831

[logger]
level = "info"

[runtime]
read_thread_num = 20
write_thread_num = 16
background_thread_num = 12

[cluster_deployment]
mode = "WithMeta"

[cluster_deployment.meta_client]
cluster_name = 'defaultCluster'
meta_addr = 'http://127.0.0.1:2379'
lease = "10s"
timeout = "5s"

[analytic]
write_group_worker_num = 16
replay_batch_size = 100
max_replay_tables_per_batch = 128
write_group_command_channel_cap = 1024
sst_background_read_parallelism = 8

[analytic.manifest]
scan_batch_size = 100
snapshot_every_n_updates = 10000
scan_timeout = "5s"
store_timeout = "5s"

[analytic.wal]
type = "RocksDB"
data_dir = "/home/admin/data/ceresdb"

[analytic.storage]
mem_cache_capacity = "20GB"
# 1<<8=256
mem_cache_partition_bits = 8
disk_cache_dir = "/home/admin/data/ceresdb/"
disk_cache_capacity = '2G'
disk_cache_page_size = '4M'

[analytic.storage.object_store]
type = "Local"
data_dir = "/home/admin/data/ceresdb/"

[analytic.table_opts]
arena_block_size = 2097152
write_buffer_size = 33554432

[analytic.compaction_config]
schedule_channel_len = 16
schedule_interval = "30m"
max_ongoing_tasks = 8
memory_limit = "4G"
```

Let's name this config file as `config.toml`. And the example configs, in which the templates must be replaced with real parameters before use, for remote storages are also provided:

- [RocksDB WAL + OSS](../../resources/config_local_oss.toml)
- [OceanBase WAL + OSS](../../resources/config_obkv_oss.toml)
- [Kafka WAL + OSS](../../resources/config_kafka_oss.toml)

## Run CeresDB cluster with CeresMeta

Firstly, let's start the CeresMeta:

```bash
docker run -d --net=host --name ceresmeta-server \
  -p 2379:2379 \
  ceresdb/ceresmeta-server
```

With the started CeresMeta cluster, let's start the CeresDB instance:

```bash
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/CeresDB/docs/main/docs/src/resources/config-ceresdb-cluster0.toml

docker run -d --net=host --name ceresdb-server0 \
  -p 8831:8831 \
  -p 3307:3307 \
  -p 5440:5440 \
  -v $(pwd)/config-ceresdb-cluster0.toml:/etc/ceresdb/ceresdb.toml \
  ceresdb/ceresdb-server

wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/CeresDB/docs/main/docs/src/resources/config-ceresdb-cluster1.toml

docker run -d --net=host --name ceresdb-server1 \
  -p 8832:8832 \
  -p 13307:13307 \
  -p 5441:5441 \
  -v $(pwd)/config-ceresdb-cluster1.toml:/etc/ceresdb/ceresdb.toml \
  ceresdb/ceresdb-server
```

Commit message:

fix: add with meta deploy note (#52)

docs/src/en/cluster_deployment/with_meta.md, after:

# WithMeta

This guide shows how to deploy a CeresDB cluster with CeresMeta. And with the CeresMeta, the whole CeresDB cluster will feature: high availability, load balancing and horizontal scalability if the underlying storage used by CeresDB is separated service.

## Deploy CeresMeta

### Introduce

CeresMeta is one of the core services of CeresDB distributed mode, it is used to manage and schedule the CeresDB
cluster.By the way, the high availability of CeresMeta is ensured by embedding [ETCD](https://github.com/etcd-io/etcd).

### Build

- Golang version >= 1.19.
- run `make build` in root path of [CeresMeta](https://github.com/CeresDB/ceresmeta).

### Deploy

#### Config

At present, CeresMeta supports specifying service startup configuration in two ways: configuration file and environment
variable. We provide an example of configuration file startup. For details, please refer
to [config](https://github.com/CeresDB/ceresmeta/tree/main/config).
The configuration priority of environment variables is higher than that of configuration files. When they exist at the
same time, the environment variables shall prevail.

#### Start CeresMeta Instances

CeresMeta is based on etcd to achieve high availability. In product environment, we usually deploy multiple nodes, but in local environment and testing, we can directly deploy a single node to simplify the entire deployment process.

- Standalone

```bash
docker run -d --name ceresmeta-server \
  ceresdb/ceresmeta-server:latest
```

- Cluster

```bash
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/CeresDB/docs/main/docs/src/resources/config-ceresmeta-cluster0.toml

docker run -d --name ceresmeta-server
  -v $(pwd)/config-ceresmeta-cluster0.toml:/etc/ceresmeta/ceresmeta.toml \
  ceresdb/ceresmeta-server:latest

wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/CeresDB/docs/main/docs/src/resources/config-ceresmeta-cluster1.toml

docker run -d --name ceresmeta-server
  -v $(pwd)/config-ceresmeta-cluster1.toml:/etc/ceresmeta/ceresmeta.toml \
  ceresdb/ceresmeta-server:latest

wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/CeresDB/docs/main/docs/src/resources/config-ceresmeta-cluster2.toml

docker run -d --name ceresmeta-server
  -v $(pwd)/config-ceresmeta-cluster2.toml:/etc/ceresmeta/ceresmeta.toml \
  ceresdb/ceresmeta-server:latest
```

## Deploy CeresDB

In the `NoMeta` mode, CeresDB only requires the local disk as the underlying storage because the topology of the CeresDB cluster is static. However, with CeresMeta, the cluster topology can be dynamic, that is to say, CeresDB can be configured to use a non-local storage service for the features of a distributed system: HA, load balancing, scalability and so on. And CeresDB can be still configured to use a local storage with CeresMeta, which certainly leads to a static cluster topology.

The relevant storage configurations include two parts:

- Object Storage
- WAL Storage

### Object Storage

#### Local Storage

Similarly, we can configure CeresDB to use a local disk as the underlying storage:

```toml
[analytic.storage.object_store]
type = "Local"
data_dir = "/home/admin/data/ceresdb"
```

#### OSS

Aliyun OSS can be also used as the underlying storage for CeresDB, with which the data is replicated for disaster recovery. Here is a example config, and you have to replace the templates with the real OSS parameters:

```toml
[analytic.storage.object_store]
type = "Aliyun"
key_id = "{key_id}"
key_secret = "{key_secret}"
endpoint = "{endpoint}"
bucket = "{bucket}"
prefix = "{data_dir}"
```

### WAL Storage

#### RocksDB

The WAL based on RocksDB is also a kind of local storage for CeresDB, which is easy for a quick start:

```toml
[analytic.wal]
type = "RocksDB"
data_dir = "/home/admin/data/ceresdb"
```

#### OceanBase

If you have deployed a OceanBase cluster, CeresDB can use it as the WAL storage for data disaster recovery. Here is a example config for such WAL, and you have to replace the templates with real OceanBase parameters:

```toml
[analytic.wal]
type = "Obkv"

[analytic.wal.data_namespace]
ttl = "365d"

[analytic.wal.obkv]
full_user_name = "{full_user_name}"
param_url = "{param_url}"
password = "{password}"

[analytic.wal.obkv.client]
sys_user_name = "{sys_user_name}"
sys_password = "{sys_password}"
```

#### Kafka

If you have deployed a Kafka cluster, CeresDB can also use it as the WAL storage. Here is example config for it, and you have to replace the templates with real parameters of the Kafka cluster:

```toml
[analytic.wal]
type = "Kafka"

[analytic.wal.kafka.client]
boost_broker = "{boost_broker}"
```

### Meta Client Config

Besides the storage configurations, CeresDB must be configured to start in `WithMeta` mode and connect to the deployed CeresMeta:

```toml
[cluster_deployment]
mode = "WithMeta"

[cluster_deployment.meta_client]
cluster_name = 'defaultCluster'
meta_addr = 'http://{CeresMetaAddr}:2379'
lease = "10s"
timeout = "5s"
```

### Complete Config of CeresDB

With all the parts of the configurations mentioned above, a runnable complete config for CeresDB can be made. In order to make the CeresDB cluster runnable, we can decide to adopt RocksDB-based WAL and local-disk-based Object Storage:

```toml
[server]
bind_addr = "0.0.0.0"
http_port = 5440
grpc_port = 8831

[logger]
level = "info"

[runtime]
read_thread_num = 20
write_thread_num = 16
background_thread_num = 12

[cluster_deployment]
mode = "WithMeta"

[cluster_deployment.meta_client]
cluster_name = 'defaultCluster'
meta_addr = 'http://127.0.0.1:2379'
lease = "10s"
timeout = "5s"

[analytic]
write_group_worker_num = 16
replay_batch_size = 100
max_replay_tables_per_batch = 128
write_group_command_channel_cap = 1024
sst_background_read_parallelism = 8

[analytic.manifest]
scan_batch_size = 100
snapshot_every_n_updates = 10000
scan_timeout = "5s"
store_timeout = "5s"

[analytic.wal]
type = "RocksDB"
data_dir = "/home/admin/data/ceresdb"

[analytic.storage]
mem_cache_capacity = "20GB"
# 1<<8=256
mem_cache_partition_bits = 8
disk_cache_dir = "/home/admin/data/ceresdb/"
disk_cache_capacity = '2G'
disk_cache_page_size = '4M'

[analytic.storage.object_store]
type = "Local"
data_dir = "/home/admin/data/ceresdb/"

[analytic.table_opts]
arena_block_size = 2097152
write_buffer_size = 33554432

[analytic.compaction_config]
schedule_channel_len = 16
schedule_interval = "30m"
max_ongoing_tasks = 8
memory_limit = "4G"
```

Let's name this config file as `config.toml`. And the example configs, in which the templates must be replaced with real parameters before use, for remote storages are also provided:

- [RocksDB WAL + OSS](../../resources/config_local_oss.toml)
- [OceanBase WAL + OSS](../../resources/config_obkv_oss.toml)
- [Kafka WAL + OSS](../../resources/config_kafka_oss.toml)

## Run CeresDB cluster with CeresMeta

Firstly, let's start the CeresMeta:

```bash
docker run -d --net=host --name ceresmeta-server \
  -p 2379:2379 \
  ceresdb/ceresmeta-server
```

With the started CeresMeta cluster, let's start the CeresDB instance:

Note: `docker --net=host` only takes effect under Linux, so the above deployment methods can only be used in Linux. We will supplement the startup methods on other platforms later.

```bash
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/CeresDB/docs/main/docs/src/resources/config-ceresdb-cluster0.toml

docker run -d --net=host --name ceresdb-server0 \
  -v $(pwd)/config-ceresdb-cluster0.toml:/etc/ceresdb/ceresdb.toml \
  ceresdb/ceresdb-server

wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/CeresDB/docs/main/docs/src/resources/config-ceresdb-cluster1.toml

docker run -d --net=host --name ceresdb-server1 \
  -v $(pwd)/config-ceresdb-cluster1.toml:/etc/ceresdb/ceresdb.toml \
  ceresdb/ceresdb-server
```
